---
title: A Top-level Domain for Private Use
abbrev: Private use top-level domain
docname: draft-davies-internal-tld-latest
stand_alone: true
stream: independent
ipr: trust200902
kw: Internet-Draft
cat: info
pi:
  sortrefs: yes
  symrefs: yes
author:
  -
    ins: K. Davies
    name: Kim Davies
    org: Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
    abbrev: IANA
    email: kim.davies@iana.org
  -
    ins: A. McConachie
    name: Andrew McConachie
    org: Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
    abbrev: ICANN
    email: andrew.mcconachie@icann.org
informative:
  BCP14:
  BCP219:
  RFC1918:
  RFC6761:
  RFC6762:
  RFC7788:
  RFC8375:
  RFC9476:
  SAC113:
    title: "SSAC Advisory on Private-Use TLDs"
    target: https://itp.cdn.icann.org/en/files/security-and-stability-advisory-committee-ssac-reports/sac-113-en.pdf
    date: 2020-09
  IANA-Assessment:
    title: "Identification of a top-level domain for private use"
    target: https://itp.cdn.icann.org/en/files/root-system/identification-tld-private-use-24-01-2024-en.pdf
    date: 2024-01
  ICANN-Board-Resolution:
    title: "Reserving .INTERNAL for Private-Use Applications"
    target: https://www.icann.org/en/board-activities-and-meetings/materials/approved-resolutions-special-meeting-of-the-icann-board-29-07-2024-en#section2.a
    date: 2024-07

--- abstract

This document describes the "internal" top-level domain for
use in private applications.

--- middle

# Introduction

There are certain circumstances in which private network operators may wish to
use their own domain naming scheme that is not intended to be used or
accessible by the global domain name system (DNS), such as within closed
corporate or home networks.

The "internal" top-level domain enables this purpose in the DNS. Such domains
will not resolve in the global DNS, but can be configured within closed
networks as the network operator sees fit. It is intended to fulfil a similar
purpose as private-use IP address ranges that are set aside (e.g. {{RFC1918}}).

# Terminology

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in {{BCP14}} when,
and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

This document assumes familiarity with DNS terms; please see {{BCP219}}.

# Using the ".internal" Namespace

Network operators have been using different names for private-use DNS for many
years. This usage has been uncoordinated and can result in incompatibilities or
harm to Internet users. For example, an organization might choose to use a name
for this purpose that has not been assigned to them. If this later appears in
the global DNS, it will cause name collisions and undefined behavior for users.

If an organization determines that it requires a private-use DNS namespace, it
should either use sub-domains of a global DNS name that is under its
organizational and operational control, or use the "internal" top-level domain.
This document does not offer guidance on when a network operators should choose
the "internal" top-level domain instead of a sub-domain of a global DNS name.
This decision will depend on multiple factors such as network design or
organizational needs, and is outside the scope of this publication.

DNSSEC validating resolvers will always fail to resolve names ending in
".internal". An organization wanting to use such names inside of their
organization MAY want to sign and validate names ending in ".internal" within
their organization. The details of such configuration are outside the scope of
this document.

# Comparisons to Similar Namespaces

Other namespaces are reserved for similar purposes, which superficially may
seem to serve the same purpose as the "internal" domain, but are intended for
different use cases.

* The "local" namespace {{RFC6762}} is reserved for use with the multicast DNS
  protocol. This protocol allows for resolution between devices on a local
  network. This namespace does not use typical DNS zones for name allocation,
  and instead uses the multicast DNS protocol to negotiate names and resolve
  conflicts. It is expected ".internal" will be used for applications where
  names are specified in locally-configured zones.

* The "alt" namespace {{RFC9476}} is reserved for contexts where identifiers
  are used that may look like domain names, but do not use the DNS protocol for
  resolution. This is in contrast to the "internal" domain which is to be used
  with the DNS protocol, but in limited private-use network scope.

* The "home.arpa" namespace {{RFC8375}} is reserved for use within residential
  networks, including the Home Networking Control Protocol {{RFC7788}}.

# IANA Considerations

The document requires no IANA actions. For the reasons stated above,
as the "internal" top-level domain is reserved from being used in the global
DNS, it MUST NOT appear in the DNS root zone.

## Domain Name Reservation Considerations

(Editor note (WK): It not yet decided if .internal should be added to the list
of special-use domain names at
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/special-use-domain-names/>.

Below are potential answers for the "Seven Questions" from {{RFC6761}}, to help
drive this discussion.

These answers were lifted from other documents which made similar reservations,
because “Good artists copy; great artists steal.” -- Pablo Picasso)


  * Answer 1: copied from {{RFC6762}}. Additional sentence added to make it more
    explicit.
  * Answer 2: copied from {{RFC6761}}, Sec 6.5.  "Domain Name Reservation
    Considerations for Example Domains". Additional text about potential
    special handling for cookies.
  * Answers 3 and 4: copied from {{RFC6761}}, Sec 6.5.  "Domain Name Reservation
    Considerations for Example Domains".
  * Answers 5 and 6: copied from {{RFC6761}}, Sec 6.1 "Domain Name Reservation
    Considerations for Private Addresses".
  * Answer 7: copied from {{RFC6762}}.


  1. Users SHOULD understand that .internal names are not expected to be
   globally unique, and may resolve to different addresses and services on
   different networks. Since there is no central authority responsible for
   assigning .internal names, users SHOULD be aware of this and SHOULD exercise
   appropriate caution.  In an untrusted or unfamiliar network environment,
   users SHOULD be aware that using a name like "www.internal" may not actually
   connect them to the web site they expected, and could easily connect them to
   a different web page, or even a fake or spoof of their intended web site,
   designed to trick them into revealing confidential information.  As always
   with networking, end-to-end cryptographic security can be a useful tool. For
   example, when connecting with ssh, the ssh host key verification process
   will inform the user if it detects that the identity of the entity they are
   communicating with has changed since the last time they connected to that
   name.


   1. Application software, in general, SHOULD NOT recognize .internal names as
special and SHOULD use .internal names as they would other domain names. An
exception to this may be web browsers (and similar) which may wish to institute
special handling for cookies, such as invalidation when a network change is
detected.


  1. Name resolution APIs and libraries SHOULD NOT recognize .internal names as
special and SHOULD NOT treat them differently.  Name resolution APIs SHOULD
send queries for .internal names to their configured caching DNS server(s).


  1. Caching DNS servers SHOULD NOT recognize .internal names as special and
SHOULD resolve them normally.


  1. Authoritative DNS servers SHOULD recognize these names as special and
SHOULD, by default, generate immediate negative responses for all such queries,
unless explicitly configured by the administrator to give positive answers for
names within the .internal zone.


  1. DNS server operators SHOULD, if they are using .internal names, configure
   their authoritative DNS servers to act as authoritative for these names.


  1. DNS Registries/Registrars MUST NOT grant requests to register any of these
   names in the normal way to any person or entity.  These names are reserved
   for use in private networks, and fall outside the set of names available for
   allocation by registries/ registrars.  Attempting to allocate one of these
   names as if it were a normal DNS domain name will probably not work as
   desired, for reasons 4, 5 and 6 above.


# Security Considerations

While the namespace is designated for private use, there is no
guarantee that the names utilized in this namespace will not leak into
the broader Internet. Since usage may appear in log files, email headers,
and the like; users should not rely on the confidentiality of the
"internal" namespace.

Users should not expect that names ending in ".internal" are globally unique;
it is likely that many of the same names will be used for entirely different
purposes on different networks. This is similar to the use of ".local" in the
multicast DNS protocol - just as there are many different devices named
"printer.local", there may be many different servers named
"accounting.internal". Users should be aware of this when entering credentials.

Users should also not assume the appearance of such names is indicative of the
true source of transmissions. When diagnosing network issues, the appearance of
such addresses must be interpreted with the associated context to ascertain the
private network with which the name is being used. A private-use name can never
be used by itself to identify the origin of a communication.

The lack of global uniqueness also has implications for HTTP cookies; a cookie
set for "accounting.internal" on one network may be sent to a different
"accounting.internal" (for example, if a user moves their laptop from one
network using ".internal" to another network using ".internal"). This may be
mitigated by adding the Secure flag to the cookie. As the "internal" namespace
is not resolvable in the global DNS, it is anticipated that Certificate
Authorities will not issue certificates for names ending in ".internal". If an
organization wants to use HTTPS with names ending in ".internal", they will
need to use an internal, private CA. The details of this are outside the scope
of this document.

# Additional Information

This reservation is the result of a community deliberation on this topic
over many years, most notably {{SAC113}}. The SAC113 advisory recommended
the establishment of a single top-level domain for private-use applications.
This top-level domain would not be delegated in the DNS root zone to ensure
it is not resolvable in contexts outside of a private network.

A selection process {{IANA-Assessment}} determined "internal" was the best
suited string given the requirement that a single string be selected for this
purpose, and subsequently reserved for this purpose in July 2024.
{{ICANN-Board-Resolution}}

--- back

# Notes (for removal before publication)
{:numbered="false"}

* It is currently assumed this domain should NOT be designated as a special-use
domain name at <https://www.iana.org/assignments/special-use-domain-names/>.

* I-D source is maintained at:
  <https://github.com/kjd/draft-davies-internal-tld>
